Hi welcome back on this video here we are going to be learning how to pass parameters into our functions.
When the last video I almost told you how to do this but we didn't go into more details about it on
this we are going to show you exactly how it's done.
Right.
So we know how to define functions.
Now we're going to find out how to pass parameters This will make our functions a lot more flexible.
We can do a lot more things with it.
So this is what we had in the last video here we had a function.
And I said to you that is programmers I use for Sunday.
But we were willing didn't do anything with them and now we are going to use it on this video.
Here are the last video we show you how to make a function how to call multiple multiple functions with
the same function.
So we call something say something right here and then we call calculate and they both did something
different the right one printed out some text on the screen.
The other one made some calculations.
Now even though this is good this is still now very flexible.
All right so I want to show you how to make these actually a lot more flexible and a lot more useful.
Right.
So first of all let's go ahead and open up blank that HP and let's do a Save As and I'm just going to
say passing
programs for parameters and then he's going to call it I'm going to call it functions the BHB right.
That's how we need for a fire right.
But anyways let's go ahead.
Bernard BHB tags here.
All right.
Perfect.
And another thing that we got to do is open this in a browser so that way we can see what in the world
we are doing right.
The magic that we will be creating soon so hopefully you're not sleeping in the other side and you are
paying very close attention because this is very important.
So we know that we define a function just by you know using the keyword function and then we write the
name the function whatever name we want.
So in this case I'm just going to say you know what I'm going to call this function reading.
That's what we're going to do.
We're going to be doing something to put a parenthesis there and then the curly brackets right.
So we know how to do this.
Let me just cover this.
We don't need it right now.
All right.
So what can we do here.
So what I'm going to do is when I call this function and I'm just going to put this here because we
got it just this is what we need to call the function right we need to use the name of the function.
By following by a semi-colon right.
The first is is followed by semi-colon.
And this is how you call it the name parentheses in the semi-colon and this is how you make this work
whatever's inside here right.
So what I want to do is I want to create I want to pass a parameter to the function from here when I
call it.
I want to pass some values here that will go inside these parameters and then we can use it inside a
function.
I hope you understand this so I'm going to put some parameters when I call the function right here going
to put some something here right.
It's going to be a variable or syntax a string whatever I want to pass are numbers and then I'm going
to put something else here.
And this is going to be the same information that I'm passing right here and I'll be right here.
The function is going to think it is and then that information that's here is going to be available
inside the function.
Right.
So that's what passing parameter is and that's how we're going to do it.
So I'm going to pass a variable called message into the function.
Right now I was going to say that because it's missing an argument right here.
Of course we know that.
Well we haven't used this so that's why he's giving us problem.
But anyways so we create a variable right here.
OK now we can use an inside function.
This might look weird but that's that's the way it is.
So I was going to say Echo
message actually as a matter of fact and I to put it there because we have the variable right here.
So I'm just going to use it inside the function.
And now we have a big problem right here it's like we have another line that is you know giving us error
there.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to pass what I want to say here because I want to pass a parameter
I want remember this value that's going to be here is going to be the same as here.
So whatever I write here is going to get translating here and then is going to get we going to be able
to use an entire function and whatever we pass through here we are going to Agway out.
So what I want to do is I want to pass some parameters are going to say hello.
Student look at that.
Right.
Isn't that magic beautiful.
So now we need a function a lot more flexible.
Look at this.
Now every time I want to do anything I could just change every time I want to use this function and
the major job of this function is just to greet this function is going to do a message so we can have
this function here for a let's say for example you have a Web site and you have a customer and you want
to execute this function.
Every time the customer goes to your website.
All right so you're going to maybe use an if statement say if the customer is on a home page.
I want you to I want you to greet him right so you'll use an if statement and then you will put this
function there and then you will say whatever you want to say to the customer like this for example
hi customer.
How are you.
She then.
So you could do that you can't even make this a variable also.
And you know it that way too.
I mean there are multiple things that you can do with it.
Now let me show you another way of doing this.
So for example let's say let me put this in.
Let me just comment this out so what you can have in your cores exercise files and this make a new function
here real quick and it's open or BHP tax again.
I'm going to show you another simple function here we're going to make another one and we're going to
call this calculator.
All right.
Very simple from one very similar to another one we made.
But this is going to be a lot more fun to do.
All right.
So what I want to calculate.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a variable as a matter of fact.
Let's do it like this.
I want to create a variable right here called number one and then divide it with a call month.
That's how you put multiple values in here.
Right.
The variable I call my old ways.
And number two.
So now every time I call this function calculate watch this I have to pass it to parameters because
I got two parameters right here.
So if this first parameter here has to be for example has to be the same it will be the same as the
first parameter right here is the order.
So this 12 is going to be number one.
This 24 is going to be number two.
So if 5 passes 12 days variable is going to have is going to contain the value of 12.
Right.
Just make sure that you know that.
Now we can do something like this.
Let me just take this off the right we can do something like maybe I don't know some make another variable
and let's just make sure that we put a dollar sign there and let's just make a function that does a
calculation let's say as it's number one and number two used to make it simple right there.
Now we have a problem here because we haven't passed any parameters.
But look at this now and I want to echo that some out right.
I'm going to explain to you right now if for some reason you don't understand what's going on.
All right.
And what I want to do is I want to add 40 a and eight
safe 48 48 is 96.
All right so hopefully you understood what happened here.
If not don't worry about it I'm going to explain it to you right now.
So we make of it we made a function call calculate and we're past into parameters here.
All right these variables here are empty right now unless I put some type of value in there and I put
the value when I call the function.
So right now I'm verbal one I put 48 and on variable to put another value of 48.
When I call that function right now if I have this like this is not doing anything.
It's not even working right now work until I call the function.
So everything here right now is just not doing anything.
They're are all variables so you don't even have any values to create the values right here.
OK.
So when I call the function pad number one 345 and that part number two three thousand five hundred
sixty two.
Then I make another variable because I want to have the calculation of number one added to number two
right contained into another variable.
I wonder some one the whole calculation somewhere.
So I assigned the calculation number one over to to this very we'll call this variable called sum.
And here what I'm doing with some is I'm echoing out on the screen the calculation and these two numbers
together.
And why are these two numbers together these two parameters that I'm given right here or whatever parameter
I give it here.
So now you see this function is actually very flexible because we can actually call this function.
Let's be a little more descriptive and we can call this function add numbers.
Look at that.
Right.
And of course we got to change the name here because now we are we were calling a function that did
not exist.
So now this function of numbers is gonna add whatever I pass it through here.
So you can make functions like subtract multiply divide.
Calculate the perimeter of the square calculate the you know the area.
Oh I don't know a square circle or rectangle whatever you can make functions like that.
Very cool.
Right so this is where this is how you pass parameters into a function.
And then you you know you take the data and do something nice with it.
You make you make your function a lot more flexible portable.
And I mean you can do wonders with this little trick here.
So anyways I hope you learn a lot on this lesson here.
And I'm just excited that you're going to learn a lot more than the next one so let's go to the next
lecture.
Take care.